The Project Gutenberg eBook of Ten Days in a Mad-House; or,
Nellie Bly's Experience on Blackwell's Island.

This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United
States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License
included with this ebook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you
are not located in the United States, you will have to check the
laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

Title: Ten Days in a Mad-House; or, Nellie Bly's Experience on
Blackwell's Island.
Author: Nellie Bly
Release date: July 10, 2019 [eBook #59899]
Language: English
Credits: Produced by Richard Tonsing, Tim Lindell, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TEN DAYS IN A MAD-HOUSE; OR,
NELLIE BLY'S EXPERIENCE ON BLACKWELL'S ISLAND. ***

Produced by Richard Tonsing, Tim Lindell, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)

TEN DAYS IN A MAD-HOUSE; OR, Nellie Bly’s Experience on Blackwell’s Island.

FEIGNING INSANITY IN ORDER TO REVEAL ASYLUM HORRORS.

The Trying Ordeal of the New York World's Girl Correspondent.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1887, by Norman L.
Munro, in the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington, D.C.

WHY ARE THE MADAME MORA’S CORSETS
(Image Placeholder)

=A MARVEL OF COMFORT AND ELEGANCE=
=Try them, and you will Find=
=WHY= they =need no breaking in=, but feel easy at once.
=WHY= they are liked by Ladies of =full figure=.
=WHY= they do =not break down over the hips=, and
=WHY= the celebrated =French curved band= prevents any wrinkling or stretching at the sides.
=WHY= dressmakers delight in fitting dresses over them.
=WHY= merchants say they give better satisfaction than any others.
=WHY= they take pains to recommend them.

Their popularity has induced many imitations, which are frauds, high at any price.
Buy only the genuine, stamped =Madame Mora’s=.
Sold by all leading Dealers with this

GUARANTEE:
that if not perfectly satisfactory upon trial the money will be refunded.

L. KRAUS & CO., Manufacturers, Birmingham, Conn.

INTRODUCTION.

Since my experiences in Blackwell’s Island Insane Asylum were published in the World, I have received hundreds of letters regarding it.
The edition containing my story long since ran out, and I have been
prevailed upon to publish it as a book to satisfy the many requests.

I am happy to state that, as a result of my visit and exposures, the
City of New York has increased its annual budget for the care of the
insane by $1,000,000 — so I take pride in knowing the unfortunates
will be better cared for because of my work.

(Image Placeholder: Nellie Bly)

TEN DAYS IN A MAD-HOUSE.
CHAPTER I.

A DELICATE MISSION.

On September 22nd, I was asked by the World if I could have myself
committed to one of the asylums for the insane in New York, to write a
truthful account of treatment and management. Did I think I had the
courage? Could I pretend to be insane enough to pass the doctors and
live among the insane for a week without raising suspicion? I believed
I could, and I did.

My instructions were to go on with my work once I felt ready, to faithfully
record my experiences, and to describe the inside workings of the asylum—
hidden behind nurses, bolts, and bars. I was told not to make sensational
revelations, but to tell the truth. I was warned about my smile, but I
promised to keep it in check.

I knew little of what to expect, but I was eager to see if the asylum
was properly managed and free of cruelty. I had read stories of abuse,
which I suspected were exaggerated, but I wanted to see for myself.

Choosing the Method of Entry

I decided not to involve friends or doctors, and instead planned to
get committed through the police courts, taking on the role of a poor,
insane girl. I used the pseudonym Nellie Brown for the occasion, to
keep my identity secure.

I spent ten days and nights in the asylum, acting the part of a helpless,
crazy girl, observing treatment and conditions. I experienced much—saw
and heard things I shall never forget—and when I was released, I left
with mixed feelings of relief and sorrow for the women I met who seemed
just as sane as I am now.

From the moment I entered, I talked and acted as I normally do, yet
strangely, the more sane I behaved, the more I was thought to be truly
mad—except by one kind physician I shall never forget.
